router: add upstream access log option on upstream stream (#26515)
envoyproxy/envoy: docs/root/intro/arch_overview/observability/access_logging.rst

HTTP request access logging and can be enabled separately and independently from
filter access logs.

> If access log is enabled, then by default it will be reported to the configured sinks at the end of a TCP

Reviewer: should we update this text to remove references to TCP which is now no longer implemented?

Author: Not sure what you mean, what is no longer implemented in TCP?

Reviewer: ah apologies, for some reason I thought the TCP log stream info were done in the same PR as the tcp log flushing.  the suggestion was in error and docs are fine as is.

stream, or HTTP request. It is possible to extend this behavior and report access logs periodically or at the

> start of a TCP stream or HTTP request. Reporting access logs right after upstream connection establishment

Reviewer: TCP connection or HTTP stream I think

Author: done

does not depend on periodic reporting, and the other way around.

.. _arch_overview_access_log_start:

Start of session access logs
----------------------------

TCP Proxy
*********

For TCP Proxy, it is possible to enable an access log record once after a successful upstream connection by using
:ref:`flush access log on connected <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.tcp_proxy.v3.TcpProxy.flush_access_log_on_connected>`

HTTP Connection Manager
***********************

For HTTP Connection Manager, it is possible to enable an access log once when a new HTTP request is received, and before iterating the filter chain by using
:ref:`flush access log on new request <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.flush_access_log_on_new_request>`
Note: Some information such as upstream host will not be available yet.

HTTP Router Filter
******************

> For Router Filter, is is possible to enable an upstream access log when a new HTTP request is received, and after successfully establishing a connection

Reviewer: when a new HTTP request is received -> when a new upstream stream is associated with the downstream stream

Author: done

with the upstream by using :ref:`flush upstream log on upstream stream <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.http.router.v3.Router.UpstreamAccessLogOptions.flush_upstream_log_on_upstream_stream>`
Note: In case that the HTTP request involvs retries, a start of request upstream access log will be recorded for each retry.

.. _arch_overview_access_log_periodic:

Periodic access logs
--------------------

TCP Proxy
*********

For TCP Proxy, it is possible to enable a prediodic access log by using
:ref:`access log flush interval <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.tcp_proxy.v3.TcpProxy.access_log_flush_interval>`

> Note: The first interval count will start right after a new connection received by the TCP Proxy and before making an upstream request.

Reviewer: upstream request -> upstream connection

Author: done

HTTP Connection Manager
***********************

For HTTP Connection Manager, it is possible to enable a prediodic access log by using
:ref:`access log flush interval <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.access_log_flush_interval>`

> Note: The first interval count will start right after the HTTP request is received by the HTTP Connection Manager filter and before iterating the HTTP filter chain.

Reviewer: If you have both periodic and "flush on new request" enabled, will we do 2 logs on downstream connection or only one?

Author: I wrote above the "Start of session access logs" that: "Reporting access logs right after upstream connection establishment or new incoming HTTP request does not depend on periodic reporting, and the other way around." once, otherwise I'd have to repeat this for both sections. Please let me know if further elaboration is required.

Reviewer 2: I don't think it needs to be repeated in each section, but it wasn't immediately clear to me that enabling both features would cause two log messages. (I think it would be nice if we detected both features were on and only logged once at the start, but I haven't looked at the periodic code closely enough to know how difficult that would be.)

Reviewer 2: I see. I added a related comment that I think would make the behavior clear to me.

:ref:`flush access log on new request <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.HcmAccessLogOptions.flush_access_log_on_new_request>`
Note: Some information such as upstream host will not be available yet.

HTTP Router Filter
******************

For Router Filter, is is possible to enable an upstream access log when a new upstream stream is associated with the downstream stream,
and after successfully establishing a connection with the upstream by using
:ref:`flush upstream log on upstream stream <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.http.router.v3.Router.UpstreamAccessLogOptions.flush_upstream_log_on_upstream_stream>`
Note: In case that the HTTP request involvs retries, a start of request upstream access log will be recorded for each retry.

.. _arch_overview_access_log_periodic:

Periodic access logs
--------------------

TCP Proxy
*********

For TCP Proxy, it is possible to enable a prediodic access log by using
:ref:`access log flush interval <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.tcp_proxy.v3.TcpProxy.TcpAccessLogOptions.access_log_flush_interval>`

> Note: The first interval count will start right after a new connection received by the TCP Proxy and before making an upstream connection.

Reviewer 2: also nit: "new connection is received"

> Note: The first interval count will start right after a new connection received by the TCP Proxy and before making an upstream connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: The first access log entry is generated one interval after a new connection is received by the TCP Proxy whether or not an upstream connection has been made.
```

Author: done, thanks
